# Contemporary Issues In Data
In this document, I'll be responding to two articles discussing ad practices and polling.

## Article 1
[Meta’s Ad Practices Ruled Illegal Under E.U. Law](https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/04/technology/meta-facebook-eu-gdpr.html?searchResultPosition=5) 
In this article, the author reports and discusses the issue regarding Meta's recent defeat on their case on ad practices in the EU. With this ruling, Meta was consquently ordered to pay a fine of $414 million, and now must change the way their ad practices function. Up until now, Meta gained legal permission from their users to access their data for personalized advertising. This could potentially be an influential decision on how Meta conducts their ad practices in the US as well. 
This decision could potentially have heavy consequences on other social media platforms as well. Currently, with the rise of personalized content on social media, such as for you pages or trending tabs, it is common for apps and other services to collect users' data for this purpose. With Meta's case and the EU ruling that Meta's ad practices are illegal, other social media companies could be targeted next. One social media platform that has particularly been in contentious waters has been Tiktok, a Chinese social media platform that has often been scrutinized for its data collection. Overall, this ruling could potentially change user privacy protections in not only the EU, but possibly around the world. 

## Article 2
[The ‘Red Wave’ Washout: How Skewed Polls Fed a False Election Narrative](https://www.nytimes.com/2022/12/31/us/politics/polling-election-2022-red-wave.html?searchResultPosition=7)
This article discusses the recent midterm elections in the US and how polls miscalculated the "red wave" that was predicted to come. According to many of the polls conducted throughout the US, political scientists predicted that a wave of Republican votes would result in the midterm election, causing a shift to a Republican majority in congress. However, what resulted was much different from what was predicted; a 'red wave' did not come, and many Democratic candidates were elected. 
The authors discuss why this may have happened, and cite reasons, such as inaccurate polling data. This leads us to explore possible sampling bias, and why people participating in polls may be so different from actual voters. Furthermore, the authors discuss the effects of innacurate polling, such as causing certain candidates to spend more than needed, or misconstruing who had a fighting chance and who didn't. This discrepency in the data available and the actual results caused some to not receive the help they needed when they could've had a chance at winning. Through this, political scientists conclude that polling data, although a useful tool, may not always be accurate due to various issues, and has unforeseen consequences. 